In this video we're going to integrate syntax highlight
to our app so that all code that we write will
be presented beautifully.
So there are many plugins out there
that we can choose the most popular
are highlight js and prims js. Both plugins has pros
and cons but in this lesson we'll be making use
this prims js. Prims js provides some beautiful
themes as you can see here is default theme.
And if I don't like it you can choose other theme such as
Twilight
coy solarized light tomorrow light etc.
And here we can see several websites that already used prims js.
That means this package is mature and reliable.
Also the reason why I chose this package is because
we've already integrated markdown it package into our
app and as I mentioned before that package provides
some plugins include prism js integration. so let's
navigate to npm js dot com
then here
let's find markdown it prism
here
let's hit this package
and copy the npm install command
please note that by installing this package the
prism js core package will also get installed.
Okay
let's go to our terminal
and before we moving on let's create
a new branch to isolate our work git
checkout -b lesson-45
okay paste the command here.
And don't forget to add -D flag. Hit return
now
while it's installing let's open m editor dot vue
then after importing markdown it package
let's import the markdown it prism here.
And then use it or integrate it with mark
down it by saying md dot use prism
now
as I mentioned earlier the prism js provides some themes
and we need to apply one of them in our app. If
we navigate to node modules
then find prism js
here it has themes folder and inside it we will find some themes.
So the way that we can do is to load
one css file inside our component like this
that's it.
web pack will take care of this for us.
But the problem is by doing this way whenever we want
to switch to another theme we need to change the
them name here and then recompile the code. So an alternative way it's a copy all these theme to a public
directory and then we can reference the theme in
our layout. We can do that manually or by defining a
command in webpack mix js
Here we can duplicate this line
then change it to copy which also accepts two arguments.
The first one is a file or directory that we will copy
in this case the themes directory inside node
modules prism js
and a second one is a target or a new
location where it will be placed. In my case
I'll store it in public css prism js themes.
All right
let's save all changes
and if we have web pack running
You need to restart it to apply the changes
when it's finished
we'll find in
this public css directory a new folder
so let's open our layout app.blade.php
then here
right after loading the app dot css
let's then load the prism js themes.
Let's save
now if we reload the page
then edit the question
and then hit the preview tab
you'll see the syntax has been highlighted
if I go back to write tab and add another code
here I'll be adding css code and I'll copy the css code from prims
js
paste here.
Now if I hit the preview tab as you can see whatever
the code we write here presented beautifully.
Okay great.
I'll hit update to save the changes to database.
Now if you see here our code is broken
and the syntax highlight is not working.
I hope you get idea why this is happening.
But if we don't we'll fix this issue in the next video.
All right let's go commit our changes to our git repo.